All right.
So now let's change track a little bit.
We now have our template for our property that we want to get an estimate for.
That template is currently populated with the average values in the data set.
So now let's get the estimated theta values for our model.
And while we're doing that we can also calculate the root means quit error for our prediction interval
I'm going to be using psychic learn to do this.
Let's store our aggression in a variable called rigour and that's going to be equal to linear regression.
So this is cycle learns linear regression and we can use that linear regression to already fit our values
so we can calculate all the theta parameters simply by calling the fit method on his and the fit method
needs two inputs namely the features and R target of H shift enter.
This calculates all the theta values in the background to get the predicted values or the fitted values.
We can use regular don't predict and then features.
So based on our features data frame we are calculating all the predicted values using the fetus from
our model.
Let me store this in a variable called fitted on a school vouchers fitted underscore values.
Now has all our predictions.
The next step is calculating our means quite error and our root mean square error.
And this is where I want to throw it over to you can you calculate the mean square error and the root
mean squared error using our psyche learn module.
I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video and give this a go.
Ready.
Here's the solution.
The MSE is going to be equal to the return value from our means squared error.
Function that we've imported at the top mean on a score squared underscore error needs two inputs the
target and the fitted values
if we output the means quite error for our regression is currently equal to zero point zero three five
approximately.
Now what about the root mean square error.
The R M S E that's simply going to be equal to the square root of the mean square error.
Now when you use num pi again.
So end p dot as Q R T parentheses MSE.
Well give me the root means quit error.
The value of the Army c is equal to zero point 1 7 5 and the units for both.
That means quote error and the root means quote error.
I'll still log dollar prices in thousands.
Now we have everything in place to make our predictions.
Leave this here hit shift enter and go down to the next cell.
What I want to do here is I want to create a python function which will estimate the log house prices
for a specific property.
We'll get the log prices first the log estimate using our data set and afterwards we'll do step 2 where
we convert this output into today's dollar values.
Now we've not written a python function of our own for a little while.
So this is a good chance to review this as well.
The way you create a function is with the DCF keyword def and then the function name.
I want to call this function.
Get on a school log on a school estimate to parentheses and then a column.
Let's have this function return a dummy value for now some say log on the school estimate is equal to
21 and then down here.
I'll specify a return value for this function so I'll see return log on the school estimate.
Now that we've defined our function we can use it.
We can call it so get an escort log and a school estimate.
Parentheses will output the value 21.
Fair enough.
So this is pretty much all the review.
The thing I actually want to show you in this lesson is not just how to create your own python function
but how to create a python function with arguments some of which have a default value because once you
do that when calling the function the arguments that already have a default value are optional.
Let me show you what I mean by that.
If I come in here into my function definition and I specify an argument see in our underscore rooms
and hit shift enter when it comes to calling our python function and not need to supply this argument.
So if I had shift into now I'll get a type error because I'm missing one required positional argument
and are on a score rooms.
Calling the function requires that I have some value for the number of rooms.
Only then will the code execute let's add four arguments to this function total number of rooms being
one the next one being students on a school per on a school classroom.
So this will be our P T ratio comma and then we'll have next on school to on the school river.
Come on and then we'll have a fourth argument high on the score.
Confidence and this last argument will be for whether or not we want to have a ninety five percent prediction
interval.
All right.
So now we have four arguments.
Meaning we need to specify values for all of these arguments here to make one of these arguments optional.
See next to the river.
I can give it a default value in our function signature in our function definition.
So next to river can be equal to say false and high confidence can be equal to say true.
What we've just done is made two of these arguments optional meaning we only need to specify the number
of rooms and the students per classroom.
So coming down here where I'm calling this function I can have five and say 19 and this cell will now
execute just fine all right.
So we can't have this function returned the value 21 all the time.
That's that's just silly.
What we actually want is we want this function to return the price estimate for a particular property.
So we're going to use our regression object rigour and predict method on that object.
And then as an argument to the predict method we need to supply a single row of features that single
row will be our property stats which currently hold on to the average values for all the features in
our data set.
Check it out if I press shift enter to refresh the cell and then pull up the values stored inside property
stats.
I can see an array with eleven features and all the average values.
Okay let's see what the lock price estimate for this particular property is.
Record don't predict property underscore stats shift enter and shift enter again we see that we get
an array of two dimensions.
Mind you it has two sets of square brackets and then we get a price estimate in log dollars.
Now if I wanted to get the wrong number instead of an array we can access that value with square brackets
0 square brackets 0.
So first row first column shift enter and shift enter again will give us the log price estimate of the
array.
Now of course this is fairly boring right.
Because even though we've input it some values here as arguments the number of rooms and students per
classroom we're not really making use of them inside our function.
So I'm going add a comment here that reads configure property
and then I'll add a second comment here that reads make prediction when it comes to configuring our
property I'm thinking we can do it in a very very similar way to the way we did it up here so check
it out.
We can make use of this input the number of rooms by changing a particular index of our end dimensional
array so property and the school stats square brackets.
So row number 1 and then column number will be R.M. on the score I the X which is column number four.
And we're gonna set that equal to an R underscore rooms.
Now we have this number here.
When calling the function filtering through into configuring the feature that we're then going to make
the prediction on.
So shift enter and shift into you'll see that number change.
Now as that changes from five to say eight to nine to three we can now get price estimates for properties
that have the average values for crime and ls that and pollution from the dataset for all the features
except for one feature namely the number of rooms.
This now depends on the input to our function let's do the same thing for Piti ratio.
The students per classroom how large you pause the video to add that line of Python code ready.
Here it goes.
So property under school stats square brackets 0 square brackets.
And then it was P T ratio and the school I.D. X it's equal to students and a score uh and a score.
Classroom.
Now we can adjust the valuation of our property based on how many kids there are per teacher shift enter
and shift enter again and changing this and heading shift.
Enter again.
We can see that for a P T ratio of ten to one the log price estimate is three point 0 5 and then for
a p p ratio of say 20.
So a much bigger class the log price estimate will go down.
Right.
So it'll be two point six eight brilliant.
Now you can see where this is going.
Right.
Next up is this next to river argument that I've given here.
This is gonna be all about our Chaz variable now.
Charles was a dummy variable right.
It's either equal to zero or it's equal to one.
The way we're gonna configure our features is using an if else clause.
So if next underscore to underscore river colon New Line property underscore stats square brackets 0
square brackets chars and a score Ida X is equal to 1.
Your line else semicolon property underscore stats square brackets 0 square brackets chars underscore
RDX
equal to zero.
What code.
That just right here in English.
This would read if the property is next to the river.
If next the river is true then we're going to change one feature namely the column for Charles River
to 1 otherwise.
If next to river is false which is the default in this case property and of course that's for the Charles
River column should be equal to zero.
The value of this point in our array is conditional on the value of next to river which should either
be true or false.
We're calling our function.
Like so this value here that we're getting for a three room dwelling with Piti ratio of 20 we're getting
a value of two point six eight.
This property here is not next to the river.
If I shift into the cell to refresh and refresh this cell then we see what this property would be priced
that if it was not next to the river.
If however next underscore to underscore River is equal to true and I refresh the cell then we can see
the premium of this property reflected in the price.
If it was next to the river.
And that's because again living next to the river is a desirable thing.
All right so you can see where this is going.
What we've just done is we've created a function and we're configuring the property that we're getting
the estimate for using the arguments to that function.
So number of rooms students per classroom and whether the property is next to the river for all the
other features like pollution and highway accessibility.
We're just using the average values of the data set.
If we wanted to we could add more lines of code here and increase the number of arguments that are being
supplied to this function to set those as well.
But for this exercise let's keep it simple let's keep it to 3 custom inputs.
How what about this fourth one that I made you add earlier high underscore confidence what I had in
mind for this one was to calculate the range.
So let's add another comment here and how that read calc range.
This is our prediction interval.
I'm going to adopt the same pattern so if higher underscore confidence colon do X ls colon do y.
Now what am I trying to get at here.
If high confidence is equal to true then I want to calculate the two standard deviation prediction interval.
I want to calculate the 95 percent prediction interval and otherwise I want to calculate the one standard
deviation prediction interval.
Sixty eight percent prediction interval the prediction intervals of course have an upper and a lower
bound.
So upper underscore bound will be equal to the log estimate plus two times are m as E.
Yes that's our root mean square error.
Coming back in here and the lower underscore bound will be equal to log on a school estimate minus two
times are MSE.
Now what about if we don't want a high confidence prediction interval.
What if we don't want a large range.
Well I can copy these two lines and I can paste them in here and instead of using two times the root
mean square error we can simply use 1 times the root means squared error to calculate our range.
So this is a wide range and this is a narrow range.
The last thing I do is I want to make this very explicit so I'll say interval is equal to 95 and here
going mercy interval is equal to sixty eight.
I want to use this variable here in a print statement later on.
For now what we're gonna do is return all of these calculations so check it out when I return our log
estimate when I return our upper bound.
We're gonna return our lower bound and we're going to return our interval hitting shift enter enter
refresh the cell and hitting shift enter on this one.
I can now see that I get a tuple.
This is what the parentheses are telling us and that tuple consists of four things the log price estimate
plus two standard deviations and minus two standard deviations for the range an upper and a lower bound.
Plus an indication if this is a wide range or a narrow range.
In this case it is a wide range Y because confidence is set true by default to get a narrow range.
I can use high underscore confidence is equal to faults in which case we will enter the else block of
the function and get the following output we get the same log estimate but the upper and the lower bound
will be plus and minus one standard deviation 1 times the route means squared error and our prediction
interval.
In this case we'll be sixty eight percent so this is the 68 percent prediction interval.
And this is the 95 percent prediction interval.
Now that we have a price estimate and an upper and a lower bound and a prediction interval the next
thing to do is to convert all of these log prices into dollar values.